cloud: add a new article about migration job (#11117)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migration-job.md

A migration job supports the following data sources:

- MySQL 5.6-8.0 on premises or on a cloud
- AWS Aurora MySQL 5.6 and 5.7
- AWS RDS MySQL 5.7

A migration job supports the following network types:

- Public IP
- VPC peering
- Private Link

A migration job supports data migration within the same region and cross regions.

## Limitations

- The system databases of `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema` and `sys` will be filtered out during migration (even when you migrate the entire upstream MySQL instance), and will not be migrated to TiDB Cloud.

- When you delete a cluster, all migration jobs in that cluster are automatically deleted, and the deleted migration jobs are not recoverable.

## Prerequisites

The username you use for the upstream database must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|:----|:----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `RELOAD` | Global |
| `REPLICATION SLAVE` | Global |
| `REPLICATION CLIENT` | Global |
| `PROCESS` | Global |

For example, if you need to migrate the data from `db1` to TiDB Cloud, execute the following `GRANT` statement:

```sql

> GRANT RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GRANT RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, PROCESS ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'
```

GRANT SELECT ON db1.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host';
```

If you also need to migrate the data from other databases to TiDB Cloud, make sure the same privileges are granted to the user of the respective databases.

## Step 1: Go to the **Data Migration** page

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters). Navigate to the **Clusters** page for your project.

2. On the **Clusters** page, click the name of your cluster, and click the **Data Migration** tab. The **Data Migration** page is displayed.

3. On the **Data Migration** page, click **Create Migration Job**. The **Create Migration Job** page is displayed.

## Step 2: Configure the source and target connection

On the **Create Migration Job** page, configure the source and target connection.

1. Create a job name. It must consist of numbers and letters with less than 60 characters.

2. Fill in the source connection profile.

   - **Data source**: the data source type. Currently, it supports MySQL, AWS Aurora MySQL, and AWS RDS MySQL.
   - **Region**: the region of the data source. If the source database is a self-built, the parameter is empty.

>    - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method of the data source. Currently, it supports Public IP, VPC peering, and Private Link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method of the data source. Currently, it supports Public IP and Private Link.
```

>    - **Hostname or IP address**: the hostname or IP address of the data source.

Reviewer: for private link user need to input `service name`, and need user to accept it in their aws account

Author: OK added

   - **Password**: enter the password of the target cluster.

4. Click **Validate Connection and Next** to validate the information you have entered.

5. You are prompted to add Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any) to allow the Data Migration service to access your source database.

## Step 3: Choose the objects to be migrated

1. You can choose to perform full data migration, incremental data migration, or both.

2. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated. You can click **All** to select all objects, or click **Customize** and then click the checkbox next to the object name to select the object.

3. Click **Next**.

## Step 4: Precheck

On the **Precheck** page, you can view the precheck results. If the precheck fails, you need to operate according to **Failed** or **Warning** details, and then click **Check again** to recheck.

For more information about precheck items, see [Migration Task Precheck](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dm-precheck).

If all check items show **Pass**, click **Next**.

## Step 5: Choose a spec and start migration

> On the **Choose a Spec and Start Migration** page, select the migration spec. The migration spec determines the number of nodes and the number of CPU cores and memory of each node. Different specs have different migration performance and cost. The cost is shown at the bottom of the page. You can select the appropriate spec according to your business needs. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud Pricing](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud-pricing-details/).

Reviewer: first release is public beta, each tenant can create one DM job at most on default, should we add this here?

Author: Added in Line 35

Reviewer: hasn't pushed? didn't see it

Author: Here https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/11117/files#r1022381763

---

> title: Migrate Online or On-Premises Data Using Migration Jobs

Reviewer 2: does the online mean "on cloud"? if it means no downtime, it's a bit weird that what the meaning of "or". We support "no downtime + cloud", "no downtime + op", "downtime + op"?

Author: Good point. Can we change it to: Migrate On-Cloud and On-Premises Data Using Migration Jobs

Author: Updated

---

# Migrate Online or On-Premises Data Using Migration Jobs

This document describes how to use a migration job to migrate online or on-premises data to TiDB Cloud.

You can import data in CSV, Parquet, SQL, and Aurora Snapshot formats to TiDB Cloud, as described in [Migration Overview](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-migration-overview.md). Many of these scenarios are offline data import scenarios. When importing such data, to ensure the consistency of upstream and downstream data, you need to stop the upstream business, then export the offline files from the database, and then import the data to TiDB Cloud. It will bring a long downtime to the business, which is unacceptable in some cases.

To solve this problem, TiDB Cloud provides the migration job feature, which supports full migration and incremental migration, allowing you to migrate your business from the upstream database to TiDB Cloud within a short downtime window.

A migration job supports the following data sources:

- MySQL 5.6-8.0 on premises or on a cloud
- AWS Aurora MySQL 5.6 and 5.7
- AWS RDS MySQL 5.7

A migration job supports the following network types:

- Public IP

> - Private Link

Author: ```suggestion
- VPC Peering
- Private Link
```

A migration job supports data migration within the same region and cross regions.

## Limitations

> - The system databases including `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema` and `sys` will be filtered out during migration (even when you migrate the entire upstream MySQL instance), and will not be migrated to TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer: in first release, we only deploy on `us-west-2` region and eks provider. that means old clusters created using aws provider will not see `data migration` tab.

- If the table to migrated already exists in the target database, TiDB Cloud appends the data to the target table directly. If the keys conflict, it will report an error.

- When you delete a cluster, all migration jobs in that cluster are automatically deleted, and the deleted migration jobs are not recoverable.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

- Currently each account can create one migration job at most.

```

## Prerequisites

The username you use for the upstream database must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|:----|:----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `RELOAD` | Global |
| `REPLICATION SLAVE` | Global |
| `REPLICATION CLIENT` | Global |
| `PROCESS` | Global |

For example, if you need to migrate the data from `db1` to TiDB Cloud, execute the following `GRANT` statement:

```sql
GRANT RELOAD, REPLICATION SLAVE, REPLICATION CLIENT, PROCESS ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'
GRANT SELECT ON db1.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host';
```

If you also need to migrate the data from other databases to TiDB Cloud, make sure the same privileges are granted to the user of the respective databases.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
 
 If you use VPC Peering, you need to set it up in advance. See [Add VPC peering requests](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#step-1-add-vpc-peering-requests)
 
```

## Step 1: Go to the **Data Migration** page

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters). Navigate to the **Clusters** page for your project.

2. On the **Clusters** page, click the name of your cluster, and click the **Data Migration** tab. The **Data Migration** page is displayed.

3. On the **Data Migration** page, click **Create Migration Job**. The **Create Migration Job** page is displayed.

## Step 2: Configure the source and target connection

On the **Create Migration Job** page, configure the source and target connection.

1. Create a job name. It must consist of numbers and letters with less than 60 characters.

2. Fill in the source connection profile.

   - **Data source**: the data source type. Currently, it supports MySQL, AWS Aurora MySQL, and AWS RDS MySQL.
   - **Region**: the region of the data source. If the source database is a self-built, the parameter is empty.

>    - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method of the data source. Currently, it supports Public IP and Private Link.

Author: ```suggestion
   - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method of the data source. Currently, it supports Public IP, VPC Peering and Private Link.
```

   - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method of the data source. Currently, it supports Public IP, VPC peering, and Private Link.

>    - **Hostname or IP address**: the hostname or IP address of the data source.

Author: ```suggestion
   - **Hostname or IP address** (for Public IP): the hostname or IP address of the data source.
   - **Service Name** (for Private Link): the endpoint service name.
```

   - **Port**: the port of the data source.
   - **Username**: the username of the data source.
   - **Password**: the password of the data source.
   - **SSL/TLS** (Only for Public IP): enable or disable the SSL/TLS configuration of the data source. If you enable SSL/TLS, you need to upload the certificate of the data source, including the CA certificate, client certificate, and client key.

3. Fill in the target connection profile.

   - **Username**: enter the username of the target cluster.
   - **Password**: enter the password of the target cluster.

4. Click **Validate Connection and Next** to validate the information you have entered.

> 5. You are prompted to add Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any) to allow the Data Migration service to access your source database.

Reviewer: only `Public IP` will prompt ip allow list. For `private link` user maybe prompted to accept the endpoint request in their account

> 5. You are prompted to add Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any) to allow the Data Migration service to access your source database.

Author: ```suggestion
5. A message is displayed.
    
    - If you use Public IP or  VPC Peering, you are prompted to add Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any) to allow the Data Migration service to access your source database. 
    - If you use Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request in your account.
```

## Step 3: Choose the objects to be migrated

> 1. You can choose to perform full data migration, incremental data migration, or both.

Author: ```suggestion
1. You can choose to perform full data migration, incremental data migration, or both. If you want to migrate data to TiDB Cloud and switch to TiDB Cloud from now on, it is recommended to select both full data migration and incremental data migration to ensure data consistency between the source and target databases. If you only select the full data migration checkbox, the migration job only migrates the existing data of the source database. 
```

> 2. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated. You can click **All** to select all objects, or click **Customize** and then click the checkbox next to the object name to select the object.

Reviewer 3: Add the following description：
1. If the user chooses "ALL" means the  DM job will  migrate existing data and replicate ongoing changes from the whole source database instance to TiDB .
2. 1 If the  user  chooses "customize"  and check the database name check box，it means the DM job will migrate existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the checked database to TiDB。
2.2  If the  user  chooses "customize"  and check the table names below the dbname check box ，it means the DM  job only will migrate  existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the selected tables and won't migrate the tables which will be created in the  same database in the future.
It is better to attach some snapshots to describe the differences.

Author: ok updated.

3. Click **Next**.

## Step 4: Precheck

> On the **Precheck** page, you can view the precheck results. If the precheck fails, you need to operate according to **Failed** or **Warning** details, and then click **Check again** to recheck.

Reviewer 3: If there is no failed check items, but exists some warning items ,the user can  evaluate the risk or ignore the warning  items .If all warning items are ignored ,the dm job will automatically go to the next step.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

If there are no failed check items, but only some warning items, you can evaluate the risk and ignore the warning items. If all warning items are ignored, the migration job will automatically go to the next step.

```

For more information about precheck items, see [Migration Task Precheck](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dm-precheck).

If all check items show **Pass**, click **Next**.

## Step 5: Choose a spec and start migration

> On the **Choose a Spec and Start Migration** page, select the migration spec. The migration spec determines the number of nodes and the number of CPU cores and memory of each node. Different specs have different migration performance and cost. The cost is shown at the bottom of the page. You can select the appropriate spec according to your business needs. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud Pricing](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud-pricing-details/).

Author: ```suggestion
On the **Choose a Spec and Start Migration** page, select the migration spec. The migration spec determines the number of nodes and the number of CPU cores and memory of each node. Different specs have different migration performance and cost. The cost is shown at the bottom of the page. You can select the appropriate spec according to your business needs.
```

> On the **Choose a Spec and Start Migration** page, select the migration spec. The migration spec determines the number of nodes and the number of CPU cores and memory of each node. Different specs have different migration performance and cost. The cost is shown at the bottom of the page. You can select the appropriate spec according to your business needs. For more information, see [TiDB Cloud Pricing](https://www.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud-pricing-details/).

Reviewer 3: it is not correct ,please refer to the  figma 
https://www.figma.com/file/LaDfyJno3uIz9GjgCZgHFN/Migration?node-id=1%3A7&t=NPE4C2sdWd0TQybu-0

Author: Updated.

After selecting the spec, click **Create Job and Start** to start the migration.

## Step 6: View the migration progress

After the migration job is created, you can view the migration progress on the **Migration Job Details** page. The migration progress is displayed in the **Stage and Status** area.

> You can pause or delete a migration job when it is running.

Reviewer 3: users can delete the dm jobs at any status.

> You can pause or delete a migration job when it is running.

Reviewer 3: users can delete the dm jobs at any status.

> You can pause or delete a migration job when it is running.

Reviewer 3: users can delete the dm jobs at any status.

> You can pause or delete a migration job when it is running.

Author: ```suggestion
You can pause or delete a migration job when it is running. You can delete a migration job in any status.
```

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters). Navigate to the **Clusters** page for your project.

2. On the **Clusters** page, click the name of your cluster, and click the **Data Migration** tab. The **Data Migration** page is displayed.

3. On the **Data Migration** page, click **Create Migration Job**. The **Create Migration Job** page is displayed.

## Step 2: Configure the source and target connection

On the **Create Migration Job** page, configure the source and target connection.

1. Create a job name. It must start with a letter, and can consist of letters (A-Z, a-z), numbers (0-9), underscores (_) and hyphens (-) with less than 60 characters.

2. Fill in the source connection profile.

   - **Data source**: the data source type. Currently, it supports MySQL, AWS Aurora MySQL, and AWS RDS MySQL.
   - **Region**: the region of the data source. If the source database is self-built, the parameter is optional.
   - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method of the data source. Currently, it supports Public IP, VPC Peering and Private Link.
   - **Hostname or IP address** (for Public IP): the hostname or IP address of the data source.

>    - **Service Name** (for Private Link): the endpoint service name.

Reviewer 4: Need to add  (for VPC peering):

>    - **Service Name** (for Private Link): the endpoint service name.

Author: ```suggestion
   - **Service Name** (for Private Link and VPC Peering): the endpoint service name.
```

---
title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Migration Jobs
summary: Learn how to use migration jobs to migrate AWS Aurora, AWS RDS and MySQL hosted on a public cloud or on-premises to TiDB Cloud.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Migration Jobs

This document describes how to use a migration job to migrate on cloud or on-premises data to TiDB Cloud.

You can import data in CSV, Parquet, SQL, and Aurora Snapshot formats to TiDB Cloud, as described in [Migration Overview](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-migration-overview.md). Many of these scenarios are offline data import scenarios. When importing such data, to ensure the consistency of upstream and downstream data, you need to stop the upstream business, then export the offline files from the database, and then import the data to TiDB Cloud. It will bring a long downtime to the business, which is unacceptable in some cases.

To solve this problem, TiDB Cloud provides the migration job feature, which supports full migration and incremental migration, allowing you to migrate your business from the upstream database to TiDB Cloud within a short downtime window.

> A migration job supports the following data sources:

Reviewer 5: 这里可以写在 prerequisite 部分吗？这里看起来就是版本信息呢

- MySQL 5.6-8.0 on premises or on a cloud. Note that MySQL 8.0 is still experimental and might have incompatible issues.
- AWS Aurora MySQL 5.6 and 5.7
- AWS RDS MySQL 5.7

A migration job supports the following network types:

- Public IP
- VPC Peering

> - Private Link

Reviewer 5: 这已经涵盖了 Cloud 全部已有的连接方式，其实都没必要提了？而且用户在下拉选项中也能看到

A migration job supports data migration within the same region and cross regions.

## Limitations

- The system databases including `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema` and `sys` will be filtered out during migration (even when you migrate the entire upstream MySQL instance), and will not be migrated to TiDB Cloud.

> - Currently the migration job feature is only deployed on the us-west-2 region and the EKS provider, which means that the **Migration Job** tab will not be displayed in old clusters created on AWS.

Reviewer 5: The EKS architecture is not documented anywhere in the TiDB Cloud documentation because it is internal and transparent to users.

> - Currently the migration job feature is only deployed on the us-west-2 region and the EKS provider, which means that the **Migration Job** tab will not be displayed in old clusters created on AWS.

Reviewer 6: yes, so I think we should not expose it to users.

> - Currently the migration job feature is only deployed on the us-west-2 region and the EKS provider, which means that the **Migration Job** tab will not be displayed in old clusters created on AWS.

Author: @Frank945946 PTAL

- If the table to migrated already exists in the target database, TiDB Cloud appends the data to the target table directly. If the keys conflict, it will report an error.

- When you delete a cluster, all migration jobs in that cluster are automatically deleted, and the deleted migration jobs are not recoverable.

> - Currently the migration job feature is still in public beta. During public beta, each account can create one migration job.

Reviewer 5: Migration Jobs or migration job?
```suggestion
- Currently, the migration job feature is still in beta and each account can create only one migration job. To use the feature, you need to [file a ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).
```

> - Currently the migration job feature is still in public beta. During public beta, each account can create one migration job.

Author: account

## Prerequisites

### Privileges for the upstream database

> The username you use for the upstream database must have the following privileges:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The username for the upstream database must have all the following privileges:
```

| Privilege | Scope |
|:----|:----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `RELOAD` | Global |
| `REPLICATION SLAVE` | Global |
| `REPLICATION CLIENT` | Global |

> | `PROCESS` | Global |

Author: Yes will add.

> For example, you can execute the following `GRANT` statement grant privileges:

Reviewer 5: Is this to say that users only this statement to grant all the required privileges?

> For example, you can execute the following `GRANT` statement grant privileges:

Reviewer 6: yes

```sql
GRANT SELECT,RELOAD,REPLICATION SLAVE,REPLICATION CLIENT,LOCK TABLES,PROCESS ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'
```

> If you also need to migrate the data from other databases to TiDB Cloud, make sure the same privileges are granted to the user of the respective databases.

Reviewer 5: +1

> If you also need to migrate the data from other databases to TiDB Cloud, make sure the same privileges are granted to the user of the respective databases.

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Privileges for the downstream TiDB Cloud cluster

The username you use for the downstream TiDB Cloud cluster must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|:----|:----|

> | `CREATE` | Tables |

Author: ```suggestion
| `CREATE` | Global |
```

| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `INSERT` | Tables |
| `UPDATE` | Tables |
| `DELETE` | Tables |
| `ALTER`  | Tables |
| `DROP`   | Tables |
| `INDEX`  | Tables |

For example, you can execute the following `GRANT` statement grant privileges:

```sql

> GRANT CREATE,SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER,DROP,INDEX ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'

Reviewer 5: Does "your_wildcard_of_host" mean the IP address of your host?

Author: yes updated.

```

If you want to quickly migrate the data, you can use the `root` account of the TiDB Cloud cluster to test the migration job quickly.

> ### Set up VPC Peering
> 
> If you use VPC Peering, you need to set it up in advance. See [Add VPC peering requests](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#step-1-add-vpc-peering-requests)
> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

## Step 1: Go to the **Data Migration** page

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters). Navigate to the **Clusters** page for your project.

2. On the **Clusters** page, click the name of your cluster, and click the **Data Migration** tab. The **Data Migration** page is displayed.

3. On the **Data Migration** page, click **Create Migration Job**. The **Create Migration Job** page is displayed.

## Step 2: Configure the source and target connection

On the **Create Migration Job** page, configure the source and target connection.

> 1. Create a job name. It must start with a letter, and can consist of letters (A-Z, a-z), numbers (0-9), underscores (_) and hyphens (-) with less than 60 characters.

Reviewer 5: "Enter" is also OK.

2. Fill in the source connection profile.

>    - **Data source**: the data source type. Currently, it supports MySQL, AWS Aurora MySQL, and AWS RDS MySQL.

Reviewer 5: Maybe we can leave the options empty in the doc.
```suggestion
   - **Data source**: the data source type.
```

>    - **Region**: the region of the data source. If the source database is self-built, the parameter is optional.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   - **Region**: the region of the data source, which is required for cloud databases only.
```

>    - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method of the data source. Currently, it supports Public IP, VPC Peering and Private Link.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method for the data source. Currently, public IP, VPC Peering, or Private Endpoint is supported.
```

>    - **Hostname or IP address** (for Public IP): the hostname or IP address of the data source.
>    - **Service Name** (for Private Link and VPC Peering): the endpoint service name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - **Hostname or IP address** (for Public IP and VPC Peering): the hostname or IP address of the data source.
   - **Service Name** (for Private Link): the endpoint service name.
```

>    - **Service Name** (for Private Link and VPC Peering): the endpoint service name.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   - **Service Name** (for Private Endpoint only): the endpoint service name.
```

   - **Port**: the port of the data source.
   - **Username**: the username of the data source.
   - **Password**: the password of the username.

>    - **SSL/TLS**: enable or disable the SSL/TLS configuration of the data source. If you enable SSL/TLS, you need to upload the certificate of the data source, including the CA certificate, client certificate, and client key.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   - **SSL/TLS**: whether to use SSL/TLS connection for the data source. If you enable SSL/TLS, you need to upload the certificates of the data source, including the CA certificate, client certificate, and client key.
```

3. Fill in the target connection profile.

>    - **Username**: enter the username of the target cluster.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   - **Username**: enter the username of the target cluster in TiDB Cloud.
```

>    - **Password**: enter the password of username.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   - **Password**: enter the password of the TiDB Cloud username.
```

4. Click **Validate Connection and Next** to validate the information you have entered.

> 5. A message is displayed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
5. Take action according to the message you see:
```

    - If you use Public IP or  VPC Peering, you are prompted to add Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any) to allow the Data Migration service to access your source database.

>     - If you use Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request in your account.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - If you use Private Endpoint, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request in your account.
```

## Step 3: Choose the objects to be migrated

> 1. You can choose to perform full data migration, incremental data migration, or both. If you want to migrate data to TiDB Cloud and switch to TiDB Cloud from now on, it is recommended to select both full data migration and incremental data migration to ensure data consistency between the source and target databases. If you only select the full data migration checkbox, the migration job only migrates the existing data of the source database.

Reviewer 5: Since the scenarios of both modes are explained in Step 2, it's a bit redundant here as Step 1. In addition, I did not see the "full data migration" box in the interface.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41534398/202377379-19ba8f68-4fe1-4b13-a783-7104ac0e8cc8.png)

Author: updated screenshots

2. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated. You can click **All** to select all objects, or click **Customize** and then click the checkbox next to the object name to select the object.

>     - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer 5: Does "ongoing changes" mean the changes made after the full migration?

>     - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
    - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes made after the full migration from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud.
```

---
title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Migration Jobs
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in AWS Aurora, AWS RDS, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Migration Jobs.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Migration Jobs

This document describes how to use Migration Jobs (MJ) to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (AWS Aurora or AWS RDS) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud. TiDB Cloud provides the Migration Jobs feature. It supports full migration and incremental migration, allowing you to migrate your business to TiDB Cloud within a short downtime window.

> 

Author: 默认启动 safe mode https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/dm-safe-mode。在任务遇到异常时就会触发 safe mode。Safe mode 是指增量复制过程中，任务出错停止并恢复后启动 safe mode，safemode 下 DM 会将故障点之前最长 60 s 内的 binlog 重新 Apply 到下游，Apply 之前会将上游的 INSERT 改写为 REPLACE，将 UPDATE 改写为 DELETE 与 REPLACE 后再向下游 Apply。因此该模式下，如果是无主键表，因为没有主键约束会导致插入重复的数据。

The Migration Jobs feature supports data migration within the same region and cross regions.

## Limitations

> - The system databases including `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema` and `sys` will be filtered out during migration (even when you migrate the entire upstream MySQL instance), and will not be migrated to TiDB Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
- The system databases will be filtered out and not be migrated to TiDB Cloud even if you select all of the databases to migrate, that is, mysql, information_schema, information_schema and sys.
```

- Currently the migration job feature is only deployed on the us-west-2 region and the EKS provider, which means that the **Migration Job** tab will not be displayed in old clusters created on AWS.

- If the table to migrate already exists in the target database, TiDB Cloud appends the data to the target table directly. If the keys conflict, an error is reported.

- When you delete a cluster, all migration jobs in that cluster are automatically deleted, and the deleted migration jobs are not recoverable.

> - Currently the migration job feature is still in public beta. During public beta, each account can create one migration job.

Author: ```suggestion
- Currently the migration job feature is still in public beta. During public beta, each organization can create one migration job.
```

## Prerequisites

Before performing the migration, you need to check the data sources, prepare privileges for upstream and downstream databases, and set up network connection.

### Supported data sources and versions

The Migration Jobs feature supports the following data sources and versions:

- MySQL 5.6, 5.7, and 8.0 local instances or on a public cloud provider. Note that MySQL 8.0 is still experimental and might have incompatibility issues.
- AWS Aurora MySQL 5.6 and 5.7
- AWS RDS MySQL 5.7

### Privileges for the upstream database

The username for the upstream database must have all the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|:----|:----|
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `RELOAD` | Global |
| `REPLICATION SLAVE` | Global |
| `REPLICATION CLIENT` | Global |
| `PROCESS` | Global |

For example, you can execute the following `GRANT` statement to grant corresponding privileges:

```sql

> GRANT SELECT,RELOAD,REPLICATION SLAVE,REPLICATION CLIENT,LOCK TABLES,PROCESS ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'

Author: ```suggestion
GRANT SELECT,RELOAD,REPLICATION SLAVE,REPLICATION CLIENT,LOCK TABLES,PROCESS ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_IP_address_of_host'
```

```

### Privileges for the downstream TiDB Cloud cluster

The username you use for the downstream TiDB Cloud cluster must have the following privileges:

| Privilege | Scope |
|:----|:----|
| `CREATE` | Global |
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `INSERT` | Tables |
| `UPDATE` | Tables |
| `DELETE` | Tables |
| `ALTER`  | Tables |
| `DROP`   | Tables |
| `INDEX`  | Tables |

For example, you can execute the following `GRANT` statement to grant corresponding privileges:

```sql

> GRANT CREATE,SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER,DROP,INDEX ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_wildcard_of_host'

Author: ```suggestion
GRANT CREATE,SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER,DROP,INDEX ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_IP_address_of_host'
```

```

If you want to quickly migrate the data, you can use the `root` account of the TiDB Cloud cluster to test the migration job quickly.

### Set up network connection

If you use Public IP as the connection type, you need to ensure that the upstream and downstream databases can be connected through the public network.

If you use VPC Peering, you need to set it up in advance. See [Add VPC peering requests](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#step-1-add-vpc-peering-requests).

If you use Private Link, you need to set it up in advance. See [Set Up Private Endpoint Connections](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections.md).

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### Binlog

You need to enable binlog, and make sure the binlogs have been kept for more than 24 hours. 

```

2. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated. You can click **All** to select all objects, or click **Customize** and then click the checkbox next to the object name to select the object.

    - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes made after the full migration from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud.

    ![Select All Objects](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-all.png)

    - If you click **Customize** and select some databases, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the selected databases to TiDB Cloud.

    ![Select Databases](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-db.png)

    - If you click **Customize** and select some tables below a dabaset name, the migration job only will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the selected tables. It will not migrate the tables that will be created in the same database in future.

    ![Select Tables](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-tables.png)

> 

Author: 加一个黑名单的介绍。

title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Migration Jobs
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in AWS Aurora, AWS RDS, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Migration Jobs.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Migration Jobs

This document describes how to use Migration Jobs (MJ) to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (AWS Aurora or AWS RDS) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud. TiDB Cloud provides the Migration Jobs feature. It supports full migration and incremental migration, allowing you to migrate your business to TiDB Cloud within a short downtime window.

The Migration Jobs feature supports data migration within the same region and cross regions.

## Limitations

- Currently, the migration job feature is still in public beta and each organization can create only one migration job. To use the feature, you need to [file a ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

- The system databases will be filtered out and not be migrated to TiDB Cloud even if you select all of the databases to migrate, that is, `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema` and `sys`.

> - Currently the migration job feature is only deployed on the us-west-2 region and the EKS provider, which means that the **Migration Job** tab will not be displayed in old clusters created on AWS.

Author: To be confirmed and updated.
```suggestion
- Currently the migration job feature is only deployed on the us-west-2 region, which means that the **Migration Job** tab will not be displayed in old clusters created on AWS.
```

title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Migration Jobs
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in AWS Aurora, AWS RDS, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Migration Jobs.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Migration Jobs

This document describes how to use Migration Jobs (MJ) to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (AWS Aurora or AWS RDS) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud.

TiDB Cloud provides the Migration Jobs feature. It supports full migration and incremental migration, allowing you to migrate your business to TiDB Cloud within a short downtime window.

The Migration Jobs feature supports data migration within the same region and cross regions.

## Limitations

- Currently, the Migration Jobs feature is still in public beta and each organization can create only one migration job. To use the feature, you need to [file a ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

- The system databases will be filtered out and not be migrated to TiDB Cloud even if you select all of the databases to migrate, that is, `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema` and `sys`.

> - The Migration Jobs feature is only available to clusters created in the `us-west-2` region after November 9, 2022. It means that the **Migration Job** tab will not be displayed in old clusters or clusters in other regions.

Author: ```suggestion
- The Migration Jobs feature is only available to clusters created in the `us-west-2` region after November 9, 2022. It means that the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed in old clusters or clusters in other regions.
```

3. Fill in the target connection profile.

   - **Username**: enter the username of the target cluster in TiDB Cloud.
   - **Password**: enter the password of the TiDB Cloud username.

4. Click **Validate Connection and Next** to validate the information you have entered.

5. Take action according to the message you see:

    - If you use Public IP or  VPC Peering, you are prompted to add Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any) to allow the Data Migration service to access your source database.
    - If you use Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request in your account.

## Step 3: Choose the objects to be migrated

1. You can choose to perform full data migration, incremental data migration, or both. If you want to migrate data to TiDB Cloud and switch to TiDB Cloud from now on, it is recommended to select both full data migration and incremental data migration to ensure data consistency between the source and target databases. If you only select the full data migration checkbox, the migration job only migrates the existing data of the source database.

> 2. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated. You can click **All** to select all objects, or click **Customize** and then click the checkbox next to the object name to select the object.

Reviewer 5: 感觉这里有点重复了，下面有详细解释和截图
```suggestion
2. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated.
```

Author: 正文中也保留吧，便于用户搜索。

>     - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes made after the full migration from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud and replicate ongoing changes after the full migration.
```

    ![Select All Objects](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-all.png)

    - If you click **Customize** and select some databases, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the selected databases to TiDB Cloud.

    ![Select Databases](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-db.png)

>     - If you click **Customize** and select some tables below a dabaset name, the migration job only will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the selected tables. It will not migrate the tables that will be created in the same database in future.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - If you click **Customize** and select some tables under a dataset name, the migration job only will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the selected tables. Tables created afterwards in the same database will not be migrated.
```

    ![Select Tables](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-tables.png)

    - If you click **Customize** and select some databases, and then select some tables in the **Selected Objects** area to move them back to the **Source Database** area, (for example the `username` table in the following screenshots), then the tables will be treated as in a blocklist. The migration job will migrate the existing data but filter out the filtered out tables (such as the `username` table in the screenshots), and will replicate ongoing changes of the selected databases to TiDB Cloud except the filtered out tables.

    ![Select Databases and Deselect Some Tables](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-db-blacklist1.jpg)

    ![Select Databases and Deselect Some Tables](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-db-blacklist2.jpg)

3. Click **Next**.

## Step 4: Precheck

On the **Precheck** page, you can view the precheck results. If the precheck fails, you need to operate according to **Failed** or **Warning** details, and then click **Check again** to recheck.

> If there are no failed check items, but only some warning items, you can evaluate the risk and ignore the warning items. If all warning items are ignored, the migration job will automatically go to the next step.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If there are only some warning items, you can evaluate the risk and ignore the warning items. If all warning items are ignored, the migration job will automatically go on to the next step.
```

For more information about precheck items, see [Migration Task Precheck](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dm-precheck).

If all check items show **Pass**, click **Next**.

## Step 5: Choose a spec and start migration

> On the **Choose a Spec and Start Migration** page, select the migration spec. During the public beta, the free migration job is limited to 3 TCUs.

Reviewer 5: TCU 文档也还是 beta 中的，而且没有加入 TOC 目录，这里是否可以避免提及 TCU 呢？

Reviewer 7: 这里可能会有问题，这篇文档里的 TiDB-DM Capacity Units 简称为 TCU，而 https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-billing-tcu 文档里的 TiCDC Capacity Unit 也简称为 TCU，因为 https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/tidb-cloud-billing-tcu  文档已发布，建议这里换一个缩写来区分？

Author: 结论是改为 4 RCU（Replication Capacity Unit）

2. Fill in the source connection profile.

   - **Data source**: the data source type.
   - **Region**: the region of the data source, which is required for cloud databases only.
   - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method for the data source. Currently, public IP, VPC Peering, or Private Private Link is supported.
   - **Hostname or IP address** (for public IP and VPC Peering): the hostname or IP address of the data source.
   - **Service Name** (for Private Link): the endpoint service name.
   - **Port**: the port of the data source.
   - **Username**: the username of the data source.
   - **Password**: the password of the username.
   - **SSL/TLS**: whether to use SSL/TLS connection for the data source. If you enable SSL/TLS, you need to upload the certificates of the data source, including the CA certificate, client certificate, and client key.

3. Fill in the target connection profile.

   - **Username**: enter the username of the target cluster in TiDB Cloud.
   - **Password**: enter the password of the TiDB Cloud username.

4. Click **Validate Connection and Next** to validate the information you have entered.

5. Take action according to the message you see:

>     - If you use Public IP or  VPC Peering, you are prompted to add Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any) to allow the Data Migration service to access your source database.

Author: ```suggestion
    - If you use Public IP or  VPC Peering, you need to add Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any) to allow the Data Migration service to access your source database.
```

---
title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in AWS Aurora, AWS RDS, or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (AWS Aurora or AWS RDS) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud directly on the TiDB Cloud console using the Data Migration feature.

This feature allows you to migrate your application data and its ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud within a short downtime window within the same region or cross regions.

## Limitations

> - Currently, the Data Migration feature is still in public beta and each organization can create only one migration job. To use the feature, you need to [file a ticket](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-support.md).

Author: Confirmed with dev. It's organization. The doc is correct.

- The system databases will be filtered out and not migrated to TiDB Cloud even if you select all of the databases to migrate. That is, `mysql`, `information_schema`, `information_schema`, and `sys` will not be migrated using this feature.

> - The Data Migration feature is only available to clusters created in the AWS `Oregon (us-west-2)` region after November 9, 2022. If your cluster was created before the date or if your cluster is in another region, this feature is not available to your cluster and the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed on the cluster overview page in the TiDB Cloud console.

Author: ```suggestion
- The Data Migration feature is only available to clusters created in the AWS `Oregon (us-west-2)` and `Singapore (ap-southeast-1)` regions after November 9, 2022. If your cluster was created before the date or if your cluster is in another region, this feature is not available to your cluster and the **Data Migration** tab will not be displayed on the cluster overview page in the TiDB Cloud console.
```

|:----|:----|
| `CREATE` | Databases, Tables |
| `SELECT` | Tables |
| `INSERT` | Tables |
| `UPDATE` | Tables |
| `DELETE` | Tables |
| `ALTER`  | Tables |
| `DROP`   | Databases，Tables |
| `INDEX`  | Tables |

For example, you can execute the following `GRANT` statement to grant corresponding privileges:

```sql
GRANT CREATE,SELECT,INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE,ALTER,DROP,INDEX ON *.* TO 'your_user'@'your_IP_address_of_host'
```

To quickly test a migration job, you can use the `root` account of the TiDB Cloud cluster.

### Set up network connection

Before creating a migration job, set up the network connection according to different connection types. See [Connect to Your TiDB Cluster](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster).

- If you use public IP for network connection, make sure that the upstream and downstream databases can be connected through the public network.

- If you use VPC Peering, set it up according to [Add VPC peering requests](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#step-1-add-vpc-peering-requests).

If you use AWS PrivateLink, set it up according to [Set Up Private Endpoint Connections](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections.md).

### Enable binlog

> If you perform incremental data migration, make sure you have enabled binlog, and the binlogs have been kept for more than 24 hours.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If you perform incremental data migration, make sure you have enabled binlogs of the upstream database, and the binlogs have been kept for more than 24 hours.
```

2. Fill in the source connection profile.

   - **Data source**: the data source type.
   - **Region**: the region of the data source, which is required for cloud databases only.
   - **Connectivity method**: the connectivity method for the data source. Currently, public IP, VPC Peering, or Private Private Link is supported.
   - **Hostname or IP address** (for public IP and VPC Peering): the hostname or IP address of the data source.
   - **Service Name** (for Private Link): the endpoint service name.
   - **Port**: the port of the data source.
   - **Username**: the username of the data source.
   - **Password**: the password of the username.
   - **SSL/TLS**: whether to use SSL/TLS connection for the data source. If you enable SSL/TLS, you need to upload the certificates of the data source, including the CA certificate, client certificate, and client key.

3. Fill in the target connection profile.

   - **Username**: enter the username of the target cluster in TiDB Cloud.
   - **Password**: enter the password of the TiDB Cloud username.

4. Click **Validate Connection and Next** to validate the information you have entered.

5. Take action according to the message you see:

>     - If you use Public IP or  VPC Peering, you need to add the Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - If you use Public IP or VPC Peering, you need to add the Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any).
```

Reviewer 7: Question: Is this feature available for Serverless Tier? Serverless Tier does not support IP Access List.

Author: No. Only for dedicated tier.

    - If you use Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request in your account.

## Step 3: Choose the objects to be migrated

1. Choose full data migration, incremental data migration, or both by choosing the checkboxes.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > - To migrate data to TiDB Cloud once and for all, choose both full data migration and incremental data migration, which ensures data consistency between the source and target databases.

>     > - To migrate the existing data of the source database to TiDB Cloud, choose the full data migration checkbox.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    > - To migrate only the existing data of the source database to TiDB Cloud, choose the full data migration checkbox.
```

2. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated. You can click **All** to select all objects, or click **Customize** and then click the checkbox next to the object name to select the object.

>     - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud and replicate ongoing changes after the full migration.

Reviewer 7: If only the full data migration checkbox is selected in the previous step, clicking **All** will not replicate ongoing changes after the full migration.

Author: updated

    ![Select All Objects](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-all.png)

>     - If you click **Customize** and select some databases, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the selected databases to TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer 7: If only the full data migration checkbox is selected in the previous step, clicking **Customize** will not replicate ongoing changes after the full migration.

    ![Select Tables](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-tables.png)

    - If you click **Customize** and select some databases, and then select some tables in the **Selected Objects** area to move them back to the **Source Database** area, (for example the `username` table in the following screenshots), then the tables will be treated as in a blocklist. The migration job will migrate the existing data but filter out the filtered out tables (such as the `username` table in the screenshots), and will replicate ongoing changes of the selected databases to TiDB Cloud except the filtered out tables.

    ![Select Databases and Deselect Some Tables](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-db-blacklist1.png)

    ![Select Databases and Deselect Some Tables](/media/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-db-blacklist2.png)

3. Click **Next**.

## Step 4: Precheck

On the **Precheck** page, you can view the precheck results. If the precheck fails, you need to operate according to **Failed** or **Warning** details, and then click **Check again** to recheck.

> If there are only some warning items, you can evaluate the risk and ignore the warning items. If all warning items are ignored, the migration job will automatically go on to the next step.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
If there are only warnings on some check items, you can evaluate the risk and consider whether to ignore the warnings. If all warnings are ignored, the migration job will automatically go on to the next step.
```

For more information about precheck items, see [Migration Task Precheck](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/dm-precheck).

If all check items show **Pass**, click **Next**.

## Step 5: Choose a spec and start migration

> On the **Choose a Spec and Start Migration** page, select the migration spec. During the public beta, the free migration job is limited to 3 TCUs.

Author: ```suggestion
On the **Choose a Spec and Start Migration** page, select the migration spec. During the public beta, the free migration job is limited to 4 RCUs (Replication Capacity Unit).
```
